Sauron, the enemy of the Free Peoples
of Middle-earth, was defeated.
The Ring passed to Isildur...
...who had this one chance
to destroy evil forever.
But the hearts of Men...
...are easily corrupted.
And the Ring of Power
has a will of its own.
It betrayed Isildur to his death.
And some things
that should not have been forgotten...
...were lost.
History became legend...
...legend became myth.
And for 2500 years...
...the Ring passed
out of all knowledge.
Until, when chance came...
...it ensnared a new bearer.
GOLLUM:
My precious.
FEMALE VOICE:
The Ring came to the creature Gollum...
...who took it deep
into the Misty Mountains.
And there it consumed him.
GOLLUM:
It came to me.
My own. My love. My own.
My precious.
FEMALE VOICE: The Ring
brought to Gollum unnatural long life.
For 500 years it poisoned his mind.
And in the gloom of Gollurn's cave,
it waited.
Darkness crept back into
the forests of the world.
Rumor grew of a shadow in the East...
...whispers of a nameless fear.
And the Ring of Power perceived...
...its time had now come.
It abandoned Gollum.
But something happened then
the Ring did not intend.
It was picked up by the most unlikely
creature imaginable.
BILBO:
What's this?
FEMALE VOICE:
A Hobbit.
Bilbo Baggins of the Shire.
A ring.
GOLLUM:
Lost!
My precious is lost!
FEMALE VOICE:
For the time will soon come...
...when Hobbits will shape
the fortunes of all.
MALE VOICE:
Down from the door where it began
[WAGON RUMBLES]
And I must follow if I can
The road goes ever on and on
Down from the door where it began
Now far ahead the road has gone